**DEMO: How to create a new item for a journal article and add edits to
WikiData**

Thanks to distinctiveness of the title, we have less concerns about
having duplicates of the journal article in WikiData.

Create a language label by adding the title under the label that
corelates to the language. Add description using "academic journal
article", "scientific journal article", "newspaper article", or others
whichever better reflects the nature of the article. Including the
publication date in the description is a common practice.

Make sure to click on "publish" or hit "enter" to save the data when
creating or editing data.

Below is a list of properties usually included in a journal article
record. If you spot any missing property and/or erroneous data, enhance
and/or the record with missing or correct information from a verifiable
source.

-   Instance of

-   Title

-   Author(s) with series ordinal

-   Author name string with series ordinal

-   Published in

-   Publication date

-   Number of pages

-   Volume

-   Issue

-   Page(s)

-   Language of work or name

-   Main subject

-   DOI

-   PM ID

-   PMC ID

The "instance of" for a journal article in the academic world can be
"scholarly article", "academic journal article", "review article", etc.

Add language tag after you enter the title. This property corelated with
"language of work and name."

If the name of the author(s) is linkable, have the name(s) listed in
"author" property. Include "series ordinal" as a qualifier if the
article is co-authored.

If encountering author's name(s) not linkable, list them with "author
name string" and include "series ordinal" if needed.

State the journal title in the property "published in."

Fill out properties "publication date", "number of pages", "volume",
"issue", and "pages" to mirror the information from the citation.

The most commonly used identifier in the academic world for journal
articles is DOI. DOI can be retrieved from CrossRef.org. Use the
"[search metadata](https://search.crossref.org/?from_ui=yes&q=metadata)"
option.

In the biomedical fields, PubMed ID and PMC ID are well-accepted. PMC ID
and PubMed ID are not the same. You can look up a PubMed ID (PM ID) by
searching journal title in [PubMed](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/).
To obtain PMC ID, you can conduct a journal title search in
[europepmc.org](https://europepmc.org/) to obtain PMC ID.
