**DEMO: How to create a new item for a journal title and add edits to
WikiData**

Most of the popular journal titles can be found in WikiData. Before
creating a new item of a journal title, searching for duplicates with
discernment is essential. (link to check for duplicates demo)

Click on "create new item" on the left column under the Wikidata logo

Enter the journal title in the language label and key in the title in
multiple languages if known.

Assign the appropriate descriptions to the journal. The descriptions can
be academic or scholarly journal, organization newsletter or bulletin,
and so on. If journal is a foreign title, stating the country of origin
can be helpful. If there is an acronym or a subtitle for the journal
title, they can be listed in "also known as."

Click on "publish" or hit "enter" to save the data.

Before building data in the statements, check out the following list of
essential properties to be included. The list can help reinsure your new
item record is relatively complete.

-   Instance of

-   Title

-   Publisher

-   Inception

-   Country of origin

-   Language of work or name

-   Publication interval

-   Main subject

-   Official website

-   Follows and followed by for title change

-   ISSN (with contribution formats of printed matter and/or online
    publication)

The most often used value with the property "instance of" for journal
title is "academic journal" in the academic setting. However, you can
assign a more appropriate value to identify the journal but make sure
the value is linkable. If you see "no match was found", it indicates the
value you enter is not linkable.

If the journal offers open access, "open-access journal" can be also
added in this property. Search the journal in DOAJ.org to verity if it
is an open access journal. "Start time" listed in DOAJ website can be
included as a qualifier and add the reference that it is "stated in"
Dictionary of Open Access Journal with a "retrieved" date as the date
you create the item record.

Ulrichsweb, a global serials dictionary, carries comprehensive
information of more than 300,000 periodicals of all types. The
properties we need to add such as, publisher, inception, country of
origin, language of work or name, publication interval, and ISSN are all
available from one search in Ulrichsweb. If you can't access Ulrichsweb
through your library subscription, most of the required information can
be retrieved from your library catalogue.

Below are some housekeeping items for building the statements for
journal.

Enter the title with a language tag. Add subtitle as a qualifier under
the title.

Include the properties "discontinued date" and "official website" if
they exit.

If the text of the journal is published more than one language, have all
the languages listed as values to go with the property "language of work
or name."

If encountering title changes, you can use the property "follows" to
state the previous title and "followed by" the new title respectively.

ISSN should be a required identifier. If the journal comes with print
and electronic versions, both ISSN must be listed with a qualifier
"distribution format" to differentiate the formats as "printed matter"
or "online publication."

Don't forget to save the data you create or rectify by hitting "enter"
or clicking on "publish" each time.
