**DEMO: How to create a new item for a publisher and add edits to
WikiData**

The global major publishers have been curated in the Wikiuniverse.
Therefore, verify if the publisher to be created already exists in
WikiData is critical to avoid the duplicates. The spelling of the
publisher can be an issue. To avoid it, heed, for example, if "and" is
replaced by "ampersand", the and symbol. (link to search for duplicates)

Click on "create new item" on the left column under the Wikidata logo

Generate the language label by entering name of the publisher under
"label" corelating to the language. And then add description of the
publisher to indicate if it is an organization, a person, or even an
imprint. To make the description more specific, location or/and
affiliation of the publisher is preferably to be included. The
Vanderbilt University Press, for example, is described as "American
university press associated with Vanderbilt University."

Make sure to click on "publish" or hit "enter" to save the data you just
entered before moving on to build the data in statements.

In the WikiData universe, label with description serves as a subject and
various statements act as predicates to state the relevant elements to
the subject.

Before starting to add properties and values to the Statements, check
out the following list that comprises the basic properties to be
included:

-   Instance of

-   Inception

-   Country

-   Headquarters location

-   Location of formation

-   Parent organization

-   Subsidiary

-   Official website

-   VIFA ID

-   ISBN publisher prefix

To better understand the definition of each property, you can click on
the property. It will take you to the item record manifesting usage
instructions and examples.

If you spot records are missing any of these properties and you can find
the data from the verifiable sources, you can add manual edits to the
record. Any erroneous entry should be also rectified.

If you need to edit data, click on "edit" next to the pen image. After
you create or edit data in statements, don't forget to publish it by
hitting "enter" or clicking on "publish" each time.

The values under the property of "Instance of" can be academic
publishing, book publishing company, or magazine publishing company.
click the most appropriate one from the drop-down list.

Add the publisher's founded year with "inception. If the closure date of
the publisher exists, list it with "discontinued date."

Add the location of the publisher with "country", "headquarters
location", or "location of formation" if available.

The properties of "parent organization", and "subsidiary" can be used to
reveal the structure of the publisher.

Add "official website" if available. Click on "add reference" and use
"reference URL" to list the website link and add the retrieving URL date
with "retrieved."

There are two useful resources that provide the identifiers for the
publisher recorder: VIFA ID and ISBN publisher prefix. Visit vifa.org
and search the publisher's name with "Corporation Names" as select filed
and "All VIFA" as select index. Add the value of the ID number to the
property of VIFA ID and add reference by listing the permalink with
"reference URL" and the date with "retrieved." ISBN publisher prefix can
be obtained from Books in Print if you can access the database from your
library subscription.
